docs(pie-docs): DSW-2061 updates for text input overview page (#1500)
justeattakeaway/pie: apps/pie-docs/src/components/text-input/overview/overview.md

    alt: "Two text inputs that are vertically stacked together."
} %}

---

## Dos and Don’ts

{% usage {
    do: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [
          "Use it when you want the user to enter a single-line value."
        ]
    },
    dont: {
        type: usageTypes.text,
        items: [
            "Don’t use if it is likely that the input will exceed one line, if this is the case use a [textarea](/components/textarea/) instead."
        ]
    }
} %}

---

## Anatomy

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/text-input/anatomy.svg",
    alt: "Anatomy of a text input.",
    width: 420
} %}

{% list {
    type: listTypes.ordered,
    items: [
        "**Form label (optional):** The [form label](/components/form-label/) provides necessary content / information to a form.",
        "**String:** Placeholder or user inputted value.",
        "**Leading content (optional):** An icon, text, or symbol that is used to visually support the input. It is displayed before the input’s value. ",
        "**Trailing content (optional):** An icon, text, or symbol that is used to visually support the input. It is displayed after the input's value.",

>         "**Assistive text (optional):** The [assistive text](components/assistive-text/) provides additional instructional information / error / success messaging."

Reviewer: Currently the link goes to https://pr1500-docs.pie.design/components/text-input/overview/components/assistive-text/. The form label link works fine though so adding the leading `/` should fix it.
```suggestion
        "**Assistive text (optional):** The [assistive text](/components/assistive-text/) provides additional instructional information / error / success messaging."
```

    ]
} %}

---

## Modifiers

### Leading and trailing content

An icon, text, or symbol can be added to visually support the input. Leading & trailing content can be combined depending on the use-case.

#### Icon

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <p>Use a leading icon for non-interactive icons that visually support the text input.</p>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/modifiers-leading-icon.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with a leading icon."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <p>Use a trailing icon for interactive icons within the text input.</p>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/modifiers-trailing-icon.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with a trailing icon."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}

>     <p>Use both leading & trailing icons when none-interactive and interactive icons are required.</p>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    <p>Use both leading and trailing icons when non-interactive and interactive icons are required.</p>
```

    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/sizes-height-small.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with small height."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Medium</h4>
    <p>Default size and should be used whenever possible.</p>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/sizes-height-medium.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with medium height."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Large</h4>
    <p>Choose this size when there is a lot of space to work with. This size is typically used in simple forms or when a text input is placed by itself on a page.</p>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/sizes-height-large.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with large height."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

### Width

Use the field width to set the users’ expectations, this can help us communicate how much input is required. For example, if a field should only have 5 characters, a full width field would not be suitable.

> When used in a form, all text input widths should be aligned.

Reviewer: Is this phrasing accurate? Something like a payment form would be an exception, perhaps, with the card security code being shorter than the card number.

Reviewer: (Happy for this to be addressed in a follow-up)

Author: @RLumleyJET could you help, please? Is this phrasing accurate?

Author: Use the field width to set the users’ expectations, this can help us communicate how much input is required. For example, if a field should only have 5 characters, a full width field would not be suitable.
In forms, aim to standardise widths for text inputs to enhance readability for users.

an adjustment from Rachel

    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Content

### Placeholder

Use clear placeholder text for the text input trigger so that users understand the purpose.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/text-input/content-placeholder.svg",
    alt: "Text input with placeholder content.",
    width: "256px"
} %}

### Input types

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Alphanumeric</h4>
    <p>Both letters, numbers and certain special characters are allowed, for the majority of use-cases this will be used.</p>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/content-inputtypes-alphanumeric.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with alphanumeric content."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Numeric</h4>
    <p>Only numeric values can be entered, for use-cases such as zip code, phone number, card number.</p>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/content-inputtypes-numeric.svg",
      width: "135px",
      alt: "Text input with numeric content."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Password</h4>

>     <p>Both letters and number are replaced with dots that hide password text by default.</p>

Reviewer: This wording also covers special characters, e.g., `!"£$%^&*`
```suggestion
    <p>Characters are replaced with dots that hide the password text by default.</p>
```

    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/content-inputtypes-password.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input with password content."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

### Formatting

#### Date

A date format can be applied to date entries such as DOB, expiry date, start/end date - a slash is automatically displayed when the user enters a value that fits a date format. The user can only enter numeric values in a date text input.
We support several types of numeric date formats in engineering. The position of the date, month and year can be interchangeable.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/text-input/content-formatting-date.svg",
    alt: "Text input with date formatting.",
    width: "690px"
} %}

#### Card number

Specifically for card number entry, the card number is displayed in groups of 4 digits. A space appears automatically after the user has entered 4 digits.

> The user can enter a maximum of 16 digits.

Reviewer: This can be updated later when we come round to building this functionality, but I believe card numbers can be [up to 19 digits](https://www.ansi.org/standards-news/all-news/2016/07/announcing-major-changes-to-the-issuer-identification-number-iin-standard-28#:~:text=length%2C%20ranging%20from-,10%20to%2019%20digits,-.%20This%20change%20is).

Reviewer 2: (We probably won't be building this functionality)

Reviewer: I think the way it's written it sounds like something the component will support out-of-the-box. Maybe it needs clarifying. It's _briefly_ mentioned later in the page with "if required is handled by pillar engineers".

Reviewer 3: Yeh, I agree it should likely be clarified. Maybe there should be a section in the code page that refers to Dates and card numbers, saying that they're not a part of the core component and this functionality will be looked at later.

Author: a couple of tweaks are going to be added to the documentation but it won't block any of your work and we will just handle it after

    alt: "Text input with date formatting.",
    width: "790px"
} %}

---

## Overflow

If the string exceeds its available visible bound, the content overflows to the left.

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/overflow-right.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input content overflows to the right."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/overflow-left.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Text input content overflows to the left."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Behavior

### Assistive text

If space is limited, long assistive text may wrap to multiple lines, especially if there are multiple text inputs sitting side by side. Every text input should have its own assistive text, even if the content is identical.

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/text-input/behaviour-assistivetext.svg",
    alt: "Example of assistive text behavior.",
    width: "300px"
} %}

### Payment method

{% notification {
  type: "warning",

>   message: "This is the suggested pattern for development, this functionality, if required is handled by pillar engineers'."

Reviewer: Removing extra quote mark at the end
```suggestion
  message: "This is the suggested pattern for development. This functionality, if required, is handled by pillar engineers."
```

    <h4>Focus</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/interactivestates-focus.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Interactive state example when input is focused."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Disabled</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/interactivestates-disabled.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Interactive state example when input is disabled.",
      variant: "secondary"
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Read only</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/interactivestates-readonly.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Interactive state example in read only mode."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    <h4>Error</h4>
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/interactivestates-error.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Interactive state example showing an error."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

---

## Examples

Outlines the atomic level interactive elements for the component.

### LTR examples

> Here are some examples of Buttons in left-to-right context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of text inputs in a left-to-right context:
```

{% contentPageImage {
    src:"../../../assets/img/components/text-input/examples-LTR-default.svg",

>     alt: "Default example layout with left-to-right text alignment.",

Reviewer: I think "direction" is more accurate. You can still have right alignment in left-to-right.
```suggestion
    alt: "Default example layout with left-to-right text direction.",
```

    width: "333px"
} %}

{% contentLayout %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/examples-LTR-password.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Password input example with left-to-right text alignment."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/examples-LTR-date.svg",
      width: "112px",
      alt: "Date selection example with left-to-right text alignment."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/examples-LTR-search.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Search bar example with left-to-right text alignment."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
  {% contentItem %}
    {% contentPageImage {
      src: "../../../assets/img/components/text-input/examples-LTR-phone.svg",
      width: "256px",
      alt: "Phone number input example with left-to-right text alignment."
    } %}
  {% endcontentItem %}
{% endcontentLayout %}

### RTL examples

> Here are some examples of Buttons in right-to-left context:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Here are some examples of text inputs in a right-to-left context:
```
